# Creating a Custom Map Style using Google

Tools used: [Google Map Styling Wizard](https://mapstyle.withgoogle.com/) and [Canva Color Palette Generator](https://www.canva.com/colors/color-palette-generator/).

The inspiration for my custom map style came from an exhibition I saw at the Victoria & Albert Museum in London over winter break. Before I started at Heinz, I studied history with a focus on popular culture in the second half of the twentieth century. So when I learned that there would be an [exhibition about Mary Quant at the V&A](https://www.vam.ac.uk/exhibitions/mary-quant) during my visit there, I knew I had to go. Quant was an English-born Welsh designer who made major contributions to fashion in the 1960s and 70s, including helping to invent and popularize the mini skirt. One element of her iconic style that was emphasized in the exhibition was her use of color. The palettes and patterns she worked with now represent some of the hues most associated with the era.

For this project, I decided to base my palette on one of the designs in the exhibition that stood out to me at the time. (This photograph was never intended to be used for anything but my own reference, so I apologize for the low quality.)

Based on this image, Canva provided the following color scheme:

When applying these colors to the custom map, I chose to visualize London and the surrounding areas, as several significant events in Quant’s life (birth, education, her first boutique, etc.) can be traced across the region. My goal was to emulate the pattern of the dress on the map – a darker base with black lines for borders, roads, etc. and lighter/brighter tones for points of interest and landscape features. I played around with the map’s color scheme for a while to experiment with different visualizations, but found that this one was the most visually interesting. Because color and overall visual style were the emphases of my map, I experimented with other aspects of the map to diminish distractions from these core elements. For example, I removed Google’s default labels for certain attractions and roads. This enhanced the map’s quality as a visual statement (but further reduced its usefulness as a navigational tool).

I wish in retrospect that I had had another lighter shade from the dress to work with. In the image, there was an orange hue that would have been helpful to have to build out the pattern a bit more and highlight some of the elements that are currently muted. Because my chosen palette lacked any of the “traditional” mapping colors, I would be interested to hear other people’s thoughts about non-traditional color schemes – could we imagine their usefulness in certain contexts?
